Notes:
- Complicated usage of language and vocabulary
- Long prelude that is self-deprecating, reluctant, foreshadowing
- Puns? trump and boorish for Trump and Boris
- Transition from global to specifics; uncommon

---

"Trump and the End of Truth" by Roger Cohen

Cohen begins his doomsday rant with a prelude of self-deprecation. Of non-importance. That although he writes against "the world's lurch towards the politics of violence," any thought of it solving a problem would be "to indulge in fantasy." That "writing into such an environment is like directing a canoe into a gale." He ends this with foreshadow when he says that he will write "while words still have some meaning," implying the grave future he believes of the world on its current tangent.
But he only lures the reader in with his reluctance &mdash; in the same way someone who is hiding something says, (paraphrased) "in the future this is worthless, but now it might have some importance" &mdash; an instance of litotes &mdash; it becomes all the more intriguing to the apprehensive audience. There is a sense of secrecy and an expectancy of something important. Cohen's sarcastic shrug, this understatement of his own work, gives the reader a sort of mischievous satisfaction when they know they have disobeyed his wishes; a satisfaction that pulls them in.
And this expectancy is pleasantly received as Cohen dives right into the content: instead of the generalities of the exposition &mdash; the global "epidemic suggestion" that endangers us and the pithy paradox "mendacity is the new truth" &mdash; the intricacies of Putin, Trump, and (Boris) Johnson's ill-fated futures are revealed. He gives a specific timeframe of a calm, relatively peaceful post-WWII era that lasted from 1945 to 2014 with Putin's exploits of Crimea.
Perhaps the most specific Cohen gets is his factual backing: he drags out pieces of evidence from the ancient Soviet slogan that "two plus two equals five" in 1931 to the "shrieking unvarnished untruth for 76 minutes" orated by Trump in the Republican Convention under a week ago. There is an intelligent argument with an enormous variety of sources, many of them historical lessons such as the "Dutch tulip craze" and the lies of Soviet Russia. This usage of historical information as lessons directly support the Orwellian quote "totalitarianism demands &hellip; the continuous alteration of the past" by using the truth to his advantage. In this way, Cohen's writing style is not only defending his argument, but also providing a live demonstration of exactly what he believes should happen &mdash; a strong melding together of style and content.
There is also a degree of repetition woven throughout the story. On the largest scope, the keywords of "fascism" and "truth" and a death to the "world" are repeated throughout. This is not an uncommon tactic as a simple reinforcement of ideas. However, smaller rhetorical effects are also created by way of repetition: the antithetical polyptoton in "Putin is not a totalitarian, but he has totalitarianism in him" associates the negativity of totalitarianism with Putin twice, even if it ostensibly lessens his relationship with it. Anaphora with "he promises ... He is ... He stands ... only he understands" refers sardonically to Trump's superficial understanding of the world, and "it invited ... its currency ... it was ... it would" emphasizes the multifacetious consequences of fascism.
And then, he mentions that "volume trumps reality," referring to Donald "Trump"; he also uses the mondegreen "boorish" to define "Boris" Johnson. Oh, the puns!
